Device Mapper  is linux kernel framework

which is generally used for mapping  physical block devices to higher level virtual block devices.

Examples:  

1.  LVM2
2.  Software RAID
3.  dm_crypt

In device Mapper architecture that are needed to discuss

A)  Mapped Device
B) Mapping  table
C)   Target Device

Mapped Device
Mapped device is a logical device provided by device-mapper driver. It provides an interface to operate on. The logical volumes in

LVM2 and pseudo disks in dm-multipath are good examples of mapped devices .

Mapping Table
Mapping table represents a mapping from a mapped device to target devices. One table can be seen as an group of variables including
mapped device’s starting address, length and target device’s physical device, starting address, length.
The unit used here is a sector (512 bytes). The command “dmsetup create” will create such a table with parameters provided.
Target Device
Target device is a modularized plugin. The device-mapper filters and redirects I/O requests with it. some good examples for target
devices
linear for LVM2
mirror for RAID
stripped for LVM2
snapshot for LVM2

multipath for dm-multipath

How application deals with device mapper
Device-mapper works by processing data passed in from a virtual block device, that it itself provides, and then passing it on to another block device.
Applications (like dm_multipath and LVM2) that want to create new mapped devices talk to the Device-mapper via the libdevmapper.so shared library, which in turn issues ioctls to the /dev/mapper/control device node.
Info About dm-multipath
Linux Device Mapper multipath tool is linux native multipath tool.  Which allows you to configure multiple  I/O paths  between server nodes and storage arrays into a single device.
Multipath  Device ID's:

WWID :-  world wide Identifier is the name which is having by multipath devices which will qnique and unchanged these names are
very difficult so you kept it in user_friendly manner but that will be unique 
